Document restarts (#478)
stackabletech/documentation: modules/concepts/pages/operations/cluster_operations.adoc

IMPORTANT: When setting `clusterOperation.reconciliationPaused` and `clusterOperation.stopped` to true in the same step, `clusterOperation.reconciliationPaused` will take precedence. This means the cluster will stop reconciling immediately and the `stopped` field is ignored. To avoid this, the cluster should first be stopped and then paused.

== Service Restarts

=== Manual Restarts

Sometimes it is necessary to restart services deployed in Kubernetes. A service restart should induce as little disruption as possible, ideally none.

Most operators create StatefulSet objects for the products they manage and Kubernetes offers a rollout mechanism to restart them. You can use `kubectl rollout restart statefulset` to restart a StatefulSet previously created by an operator.

To illustrate how to use the command line to restart one or more Pods, we will assume you used the Stackable HDFS Operator to deploy an HDFS stacklet called `dumbo`.

This stacklet will consist, among other things, of three StatefulSets created for each HDFS role: `namenode`, `datanode` and `journalnode`. Let's list them:

[source,shell]
----

> ❯ kubectl get sts -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=dumbo

Reviewer: To be consistent :)
```suggestion
❯ kubectl get statefulset -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=dumbo
```

NAME                        READY   AGE
dumbo-datanode-default      2/2     4m41s
dumbo-journalnode-default   1/1     4m41s
dumbo-namenode-default      2/2     4m41s
----

> To restart the HDFS data node Pods, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To restart the HDFS DataNode Pods, run:
```

[source,shell]
----
❯ kubectl rollout restart statefulset dumbo-datanode-default 
statefulset.apps/dumbo-datanode-default restarted
----

Sometimes you want to restart all Pods of a stacklet and not just individual roles. This can be achieved in a similar manner by using labels instead of StatefulSet names. Continuing with the example above, to restart all HDFS Pods you would have to run:

[source,shell]
----
❯ kubectl rollout restart statefulset --selector app.kubernetes.io/instance=dumbo
----

To wait for all Pods to be running again:

[source,shell]
----
❯ kubectl rollout status statefulset --selector app.kubernetes.io/instance=dumbo
----

Here we used the label `app.kubernetes.io/instance=dumbo` to select all Pods that belong to a specific HDFS stacklet. This label is created by the operator and `dumbo` is the name of the HDFS stacklet as specified in the custom resource. You can add more labels to make finer grained restarts.

== Automatic Restarts

> The Commons Operator of the Stackable Platform may restart Pods automatically, for purposes such as ensuring that security certificates are up-to-date. For details, see the xref:commons-operator:index.adoc[Commons Operator documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Commons Operator of the Stackable Platform may restart Pods automatically, for purposes such as ensuring that TLS certificates are up-to-date. For details, see the xref:commons-operator:index.adoc[Commons Operator documentation].
```

<1> The `clusterOperation.reconciliationPaused` flag set to `true` stops the operator from reconciling any changes to the cluster spec. The cluster status is still updated.
<2> The `clusterOperation.stopped` flag set to `true` stops all pods in the cluster. This is done by setting all deployed `StatefulSet` replicas to 0.

IMPORTANT: When setting `clusterOperation.reconciliationPaused` and `clusterOperation.stopped` to true in the same step, `clusterOperation.reconciliationPaused` will take precedence. This means the cluster will stop reconciling immediately and the `stopped` field is ignored. To avoid this, the cluster should first be stopped and then paused.

== Service Restarts

=== Manual Restarts

Sometimes it is necessary to restart services deployed in Kubernetes. A service restart should induce as little disruption as possible, ideally none.

> Most operators create `StatefulSet` objects for the products they manage and Kubernetes offers a rollout mechanism to restart them. You can use `kubectl rollout restart statefulset` to restart a StatefulSet previously created by an operator.

Reviewer 2: yes, just CamelCase for objects like StatefulSet without code style please!

> Most operators create `StatefulSet` objects for the products they manage and Kubernetes offers a rollout mechanism to restart them. You can use `kubectl rollout restart statefulset` to restart a StatefulSet previously created by an operator.

Author: Done https://github.com/stackabletech/documentation/pull/478/commits/c7942e9fb5fe102b0727dc5bbe79c08091569832

> For example, an Airflow stack will have three ServiceSets created for it: `scheduler`, `webserver` and `worker`. So given the following stateful sets deployed for an Airflow stacklet:

Author: Done here https://github.com/stackabletech/documentation/pull/478/commits/6b2d8d65e301228df0d61be53c06ae6204dcb195

[source,shell]
----
❯ kubectl get sts 
NAME                        READY   AGE
airflow-scheduler-default   1/1     61m
airflow-webserver-default   1/1     61m
airflow-worker-default      2/2     61m
postgresql-airflow          1/1     64m
redis-airflow-master        1/1     64m
redis-airflow-replicas      1/1     64m
----

To restart the Airflow scheduler, run:

[source,shell]
----
❯ kubectl rollout restart statefulset airflow-scheduler-default 
statefulset.apps/airflow-scheduler-default restarted
----

> Sometimes you want to restart all `Pods` of stack and not just individual roles. This can be achieved in a similar manner by using labels instead of `StatefulSet` names. Continuing with the example above, to restart all Airflow `Pods` you would have to run:

Reviewer 3: For clarity we might want to use a different stacklet name here, to avoid it getting confused with Airflow-the-product or Airflow-the-operator.

> Sometimes you want to restart all `Pods` of stack and not just individual roles. This can be achieved in a similar manner by using labels instead of `StatefulSet` names. Continuing with the example above, to restart all Airflow `Pods` you would have to run:

Reviewer 2: A bit of topic, but: I think we need a page to define stacklet, because it isn't defined anywere atm

> Sometimes you want to restart all `Pods` of stack and not just individual roles. This can be achieved in a similar manner by using labels instead of `StatefulSet` names. Continuing with the example above, to restart all Airflow `Pods` you would have to run:

Author: Renamed stacklet to `myairflow` to avoid some confusion: https://github.com/stackabletech/documentation/pull/478/commits/7149e7d23b430ab7c64c52dd3edaf6ea0ec6aa8f

> Sometimes you want to restart all `Pods` of stack and not just individual roles. This can be achieved in a similar manner by using labels instead of `StatefulSet` names. Continuing with the example above, to restart all Airflow `Pods` you would have to run:

Author: > A bit of topic, but: I think we need a page to define stacklet, because it isn't defined anywere atm

Like this? https://github.com/stackabletech/documentation/pull/479

[source,shell]
----
❯ kubectl rollout restart statefulset --selector app.kubernetes.io/instance=airflow
----

To wait for all Pods to be running again you run:

[source,shell]
----

> ❯ kubectl rollout status statefulset --selector app.kubernetes.io/instance=airflow

Reviewer 3: Same here.

----

> Here we used the label `app.kubernetes.io/instance=airflow` to select all Pods that belong to a specific Airflow stack. This label is created by the operator and `airflow` is the name of the Airflow stack as specified in the custom resource. You can add more labels to make finer grained restarts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here we used the label `app.kubernetes.io/instance=airflow` to select all Pods that belong to a specific Airflow stacklet. This label is created by the operator and `airflow` is the name of the Airflow stacklet as specified in the custom resource. You can add more labels to make finer grained restarts.
```

> NOTE: When using Airflow's https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/executor/kubernetes.html[Kubernetes executor], `worker` Pods are created dynamically by DAGs when needed, this in general it's not necessary to restart them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: When using Airflow's https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/executor/kubernetes.html[Kubernetes executor], `worker` Pods are created dynamically by DAGs when needed, in this case it is generally not necessary to restart them.
```

Reviewer 3: It feels slightly weird to call out Airflow specifically in this kind of "generic" documentation, but at the same time I can see why when it's the example product used throughout... Would it make sense to use a more "vanilla" product as our example here?

Author: I agree this is very Airflow specific. I'm also fine with deleting this paragraph.

Reviewer 3: I think something like Kafka or ZooKeeper would be a good example. Single role, no batch jobs, no special caveats.

Author: But I think having multiple roles to watch out for is quite relevant in this case. Users might just want/need to start workers for example, and such an example raises awareness that they don't always have to do full restarts.

Reviewer 3: That's fair… how about HDFS?

Author: Switched to HDFS: https://github.com/stackabletech/documentation/pull/478/commits/c5179e3973b73d8dc67b0416f37154b6b24d0601

== Automatic Restarts

> The Commons Operator of the Stackable Platform might restart Pods automatically, for example to ensure that security certificates are up-to-date. For details, see the xref:commons-operator:index.adoc[Commons Operator documentation].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Commons Operator of the Stackable Platform may restart Pods automatically, for purposes such as ensuring that security certificates are up-to-date. For details, see the xref:commons-operator:index.adoc[Commons Operator documentation].
```
